Let's get some experience with creating,
modifying and removing a new user account.
We will do this on Ubuntu 17.04.
There are some variations between distributions about what exactly is created,
whether a new account is created and exactly which files are there, etc.
This is mostly controlled by a file under /etc/default/useradd appropriately named.
So, you can see, for example,
in here, the default shell is set to be SHELL=/bin/sh.
Now, on some distributions, such as Red Hat, this file is rather
short and not very well documented, on Ubuntu is rather long.
So, let's create the account: "sudo useradd".
I'll say, "-m" to make sure it creates a home directory.
Some distributions do not do that by default.
Ubuntu does not,
for instance, and neither does openSUSE.
I'll give the full name to be "Eric Dolphy".
I'll specify the default shell to be /bin/bash with the "-s" option,
and here's the name edolphy [sudo useradd -m -c "Eric Dolphy" -s /bin/bash edolphy].
Now, I still have to pass assess via password.
So, I'll do that with "sudo passwd edolphy".
Then, I type something,
and now the account exists.
I can verify that by making sure entries were made in
the /etc/passwd file and /etc/group [grep edolphy /etc/passwd /etc/group],
and there we go.
Notice it is now user 1001.
Remember, normal users start at 1,000, and student is user 1,000,
and so that's appropriate.
Also, the other information I specified is there, such as the full username,
and the shell /bin/bash,
and the group is set to be 1001,
which is the same ID as the user.
All users are created with at least one group that has the same number as their username.
Now, let's actually try to log into that account,
and I'll do that with "ssh edolphy@localhost".
I'll give the password,
and I succeeded just fine.
So, let's see what's actually in that directory.
You'll see there isn't much,
but these are files that all new users get.
Let me log out now.
That's controlled by whatever's in the /etc/skel directory,
anything you put in there.
Let me do the "-a" option [ls -la /etc/skel].
Anything you put in there,
will show up in any new user's account.
So, let's just clean up,
and I'll do that with "userdel -r edolphy".
The r is necessary to make sure it removes the home directory.
You'll notice, I get a warning message about not having created a mail spool file,
that's harmless, and if I do "ls -l /home" now,
we see the account has gone.
So, we're all cleaned up.